# The Carpet-Bag

https://americanliterature.com/author/herman-melville/book/moby-dick-or-the-whale/chapter-2-the-carpet-bag

    what to take and being stuck in delay

    the racist discomfort of being outside do we talk here about Winnipeg? the walk to MILL

> It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the sign of 'The Trap!'

    coffin and the spouter inn a sign of ominous portent

> It was a queer sort of place- a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed. "In of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon," says an old writer- of whose works I possess the only copy extant- "it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier."

    the only copy extant that's something about this being a weird sort of tale - Euroclydon being in Acts 27:14
    
    blubbering pun at the end - a note on cleverness?
